---
title: The Quest for Accountability
author: Kyle Dormer
layout: post
---

Throughout the various trials and tribulations of the COVID-19 lockdowns - something I am sure we have all faced - I have had more time than usual to reflect. Through this reflection I've noticed some patterns in my behaviour. Namely, I perform much better when there's some form of external structure.

For example, when I used to start work early in the morning I would leap out of bed and head to work without thinking about it, in fact there were many mornings that I _enjoyed_ this. A young person enjoying being forced out of bed to head to work? Shock and horror, I know. Jokes aside though, this fact that perhaps my subconscious has always known is now clear to me: **I struggle without external structure to life**.

When the lockdowns came all of my external enagagements (including lectures) were either cancelled or switched to entirely online. Suddenly I was stuck in my room day-in and day-out and what happened is exactly what you would imagine, my mental health suffered. Along with this, came a greatly increased difficulty in sticking to habits that were as ingrained as brushing one's teeth prior to lockdown. It was precisely this lack of external structure that humans evolved to rely upon.

I can't claim to know the exact anthropological nor biological reasons for it, I'm a computer guy, but we evolved with the requirements of hunting food, gathering water etc, yet in a modern first-world country these are almost non-issues for all but the most unfortunate. This is a testimony to how much humans have achieved for sure, but living without the external pressures we adapted to over millions of years comes with its own problems (at least for me). What resulted was _apathy_ and _lethargy_.

With this newfound self-knowledge in mind, I've decided to make myself accountable to the internet. I don't think it's entirely unreasonable to suggest that humans, as social animals, evolved to be accountable to the tribe. Prehistoric man grew up accountable to his elders and his peers but in these trying times I have lost much of that accountability. Whether this simply suggests a lack of discipline on my part, or something deeper, I can't claim to know. All I know, in the end, is that I am both happier and more productive with some accountability to keep me going in life.

Now, more on leveraging the internet to be accountable. Honestly, I doubt anyone is particularly interested in checking in on my habits daily but it will work as a form of psychological sleight of hand, so to speak. Ultimately, no one could be reading it or 1 million people could be reading it, that's the magic of the internet. This 'Schrödinger's audience' experiment of mine, in the very least, will be an interesting experiment.

Without further ado then, these are my goals for this coming month and in general:

- keep up going to the gym regularly and improve my low-bar squat form
- finish off all of my university assignments for this semester
- get up to the woods for a hike and some bushcraft at least once a week
- keep on my cut to lose 12kg by the end of August
- wake up at a reasonable time and don't oversleep!

My intention is to start creating daily or weekly status updates on these habits of mine either on this blog or on another dedicated section of this website. So stay frosty and keep your eyes peeled, or don't! That's the point, my subconscious monkey mind won't know the difference.
